# Database performance, replication, partitioning


## Performance vs Scalability

This document focuses on the scaling path of a database, starting with improving performance and going through database replication and partitioning. 

Performance is different than scaling, however improving performance can significantly change scalability of a system. For example, if add an index to improve a table look up to O(Log(N)) time from O(N) time, this has a big impact on what we need to do to scale the system. 

## Performance

    [Use the Index, Luke!](http://use-the-index-luke.com/)
        Adding indexes is a development task, not a sysadmin task. Adding indexes is to prescribe data's access path/pattern to improve performance.
            Typically self-balancing b-tree ( a generalization of BST)
            Another option is hash
        Adding indexes is to tradeoff
            Writes for reads
                Every write also requires updating the index
            Space for time
                Indexes cost space
        Run EXPLAIN / EXPLAIN ANALYZE 
            Execution Plan
            Never do full table scan (*). 
                If you see "Seq Scan", add an index!
        SQL keywords that may point to opportunities for indexing
            WHERE
            ORDER BY
            JOIN
            GROUP
    N+1 Issues
        When you need to retrieve a set of related records, but instead of performing one query to get data, the system performs one query to get a main set of records and then perform another query per record fetched
        Often due to how an ORM interprets a database query
        Example - instead of one query to get all books from all authors, a query is made to get all authors, and then a query per author to get each of their books

-- Performant Query, get all records

SELECT a.id, a.name, b.title
FROM authors a
LEFT JOIN books b ON a.id = b.author_id;


-- N+1 Problem: Get all authors
SELECT id, name FROM authors;

-- Then get execute another query per author to get their books
SELECT title FROM books WHERE author_id = ?;



## Scaling a Database

    Adding indexes, while keeping an eye on read/write ratio
    Denormalization
        Eliminate joins by introducing redundant data
        Will mutate database schema and requires data migration strategy
        Often not realistic for large or mature database
    Try to keep indexes in memory
        Database is too large to keep in memory, but keep indexes in memory for speed
        Most relational databases will do this for you
    Analyze data growth velocity
        If growth starts to outpace memory/HDD, then you need a sharding strategy (see Partitioning section below)


## Replication (Primary - Replicas)
### Why need replicas? Why not just 1 database? 

    When we have multiple web/app servers talking to 1 db server, it overwhelms the db. 
        Having replicas allows us to direct reads to the replicas.
    When are users are geographically far away from our database, it takes longer to return a response to them
        Having replicas in different regions can help serve clients faster
    When you only have one database, you have a single point of failure
        If your primary goes offline, the system can still be read-only until one of the replicas is promoted to be the Primary

### What does this look like?

    Write only to Primary (the "system of record")
    Read from replicas 
    Spread QPS across multiple database servers, especially good for read heavy apps

### How does replication work here?

    Asynchronous replication - primary's writes are re-played (federated) on replicas via a "write log"
    It comes with downsides
        Durability - what happens if the primary that receives and confirms a write request fails before it can propagate that change to the replicas?
        Replication lag - what happens if we try to read some data that hasn't been fully replicated yet?
            Certain reads can be served from the primary - i.e. "read your writes"


## Replication (Primary - Primary)
### Why would I need more than one primary?

    This may be necessary when writing to 1 db overwhelms the db server.
    Latency on writes for far away users still a problem
    Single point of failure - is there a process to promote a replica to become primary?

### What does this look like?

    Both (all) databases are writable
    Good for write-heavy apps, or apps with users in distant locations
    Writes may result in conflicts, which may have to be resolved, introducing latency

### How does replication work here?

    Asynchronous replication - data is synced between the primary databases
    This also comes with downsides, namely conflicts due to replication lag - what happens when multiple primaries accept conflicting writes?
        Avoid conflicts in the first place - for situations where you can always accept writes for a specific set of data in a specific database
        Last Write Wins - timestamps are attached to each write, and most recent one is accepted (reliable and synchronized clocks still a problem)
        Allow users to resolve - store conflicting writes and return them all to users, asking them to resolve
        CRDT (conflict resolution data types) - often used in real-time applications (and Capstone projects!)
        Write (and read) from multiple database instances, settling differences with a quorum
        Custom solutions


## Partitioning (Sharding)
### Why partition my data? 

    One big problem - we have too much data. This leads to performance degradation, with side effects like increasing difficulty of managing large indexes in memory 

### What does this look like?

    While each replica holds an entire copy of the data, partitioning involves splitting the data up, like volumes of an encyclopedia.
    Benefits include
        Smaller result sets
        Indexes built faster (faster writes)
        Queries become faster
        Database cache-ability
    Drawbacks include
        Complexity of implementation - application needs to become aware of where data is stored
        Queries across shards become more complex and lose ACID guarantees
        Difficult to find the right partition key - potential for uneven data and load distribution

### How does partitioning work here?
Zoom horizontal_vs_vertical_partitioning.jpeg
credit - @alexxubyte 122 KB View full-size Download

    Vertical Partitioning
        Schema changes to split out columns to a separate table / db
        Similar to normalization, but for a different purpose (modeling vs performance)
            normalization is domain modeling, vertical partitioning is for performance optimization
        Split out large, infrequent used columns so frequently used columns can be cached more aggressively
            For example: split off username and password from Users table for authentication purposes
            Fun detour - [How to store passwords safely in a database](https://twitter.com/alexxubyte/status/1522242694004674560)
 
    Horizontal Partitioning (Sharding)
        Normally when we talk about partitioning, we're talking about horizontal partitioning, or sharding.
        Partitioning should ideally only happen once if the proper key is chosen since it's a decision that is extremely hard to reverse.
        Partition key (or sharding key) is specific to an applications data access patterns. A key should be selected to minimize "hot spots" and cross-shard querying
            For example, common keys could include: 
                user ID
                hash 
                region
                date range or timestamp
        What happens when your shards get too big? You guessed wrong and data grew too rapidly. Shard again.
        Warning: sharding is NEVER a suggestion to be thrown around lightly. It's the very last resort since it's almost impossible to reverse and comes with a substantial increase in complexity.

