# Message Queues


Message queues are both an architectural pattern, as well as a common component of event-driven architecture. They facilitate communication between two different components of a system, especially components in a distributed system or those that operate asynchronously.

# Messaging Patterns

## Message Queue

Sometimes called "point-to-point", Each consumer pulls a different message off the queue, one-by-one. Each time a consumer retrieves a message, it is removed from the queue. In this way, the queue is only handling messages "in-flight".

An easy way to think of this is like orders at a restaurant. The waitstaff takes the order (producer), submits them to the kitchen (puts them on the queue), and the chefs (consumer) can process the orders. The waitstaff can just submit the orders quickly and get back to waiting on tables, and the chefs can process the orders at a rate that they can handle.

Zoom image(15).png
Message Queue Pattern 68.7 KB View full-size Download


## Publish/Subscribe (aka pub/sub)

Publishers publish messages to specific topics. Messages are then pushed to subscribes that have subscribed to that topic. In this way, each subscriber can receive a copy of each message for a particular topic that they are subscribed to.

An easy way to think about this is magazine subscriptions. Magazine publishers (literally, publishers) produce various magazines on different topics. People (subscribers) can sign up for whichever magazines interest them. Each subscriber receives a copy whenever there is a new issue (message) available.

Zoom image(16).png
Pub/Sub Pattern 132 KB View full-size Download



## Benefits

    Decoupling - one of the biggest benefits is that queues can help decouple different pieces of your system and allow them to work independently.
    Reliability - if a consumer isn't available to receive the message, the queue will hold the message until the consumer is back online and able to retrieve the message.
    Scalability and Broadcasting - messages and tasks can be distributed to multiple consumers. If you receive a sudden spike in messages, the queue can flatten the curve by holding the excess and allowing consumers to process messages at a different (usually slower) rate than they arrive in.
    Asynchronous processing - producer isn't blocked, waiting for a response from the consumer. It can just "fire and forget" a message onto the queue.
    Facilitates real-time communication and eliminates the need for polling


## Drawbacks

    Increased complexity and management overhead. 
    Harder to debug and trace the flow of events
    Producer has no knowledge if message was received or acted upon, it doesn't get the immediate feedback of a traditional request/response cycle.
    Can be difficult to maintain strict ordering of events (although this is sometimes guaranteed by message queue software)



## Examples include:

    RabbitMQ
    Amazon SQS and SNS
    ActiveMQ
    Kafka
    Redis


## Additional materials

    [Gently Down the Stream - A gentle introduction to Apache Kafka](https://www.gentlydownthe.stream/)
    [Queueing - An interactive study of queueing strategies](https://encore.dev/blog/queueing)
