# CAP Theorem, ACID, Base


## The CAP Theorem:

    Consistency
    Availability
    Partition Tolerance 

Rationale? When data has to go over the network, anything can happen (network can be down or data can be corrupted). Consistency has to take time to achieve (not immediately available). 

Systems that are CA are simply one node, such as a non-distributed RDBMS (relational database management system). Practically speaking, though, when choosing distributed systems (partition-tolerant), pick either

    Consistency (CP systems)
    Availability (AP systems)



## Critiques of CAP
But the CAP theorem, as a theorem, is actually the result of an impossibility proof. Yet, this proof uses a very precise model: if the model doesn't fit your system, then it doesn't apply... And most systems do not actually resemble the model used for the proof of the CAP theorem. The CAP theorem does not actually apply to most systems: we use it incorrectly a lot of the time (even seasoned engineers and architects do this). It can provide some value or utility to critique a system, but when the system is so different from the model used in the proof, its utility drastically decreases. In most cases, it is at best a buzzword used for marketing. As an engineer who will probably be working on distributed systems for the rest of your career, it behooves you to understand CAP theorem deeply.

Consistency, availability, and partition tolerance are, of course, important properties to think about in a system. But how those are defined in CAP theorem, and the resulting impossibility proof (that you can't have all three), are very specific. If your definitions differ, or if your system does not resemble the one used in CAP theorem, then you should still reason about these properties and their tradeoffs, but the CAP theorem will not help you.

Read this critique of CAP by Martin Kleppmann:
https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/research/dtg/www/files/publications/public/mk428/cap-critique.pdf

For a lighter version of this critique, read this: https://martin.kleppmann.com/2015/05/11/please-stop-calling-databases-cp-or-ap.html

## ACID (CP, Strong Consistency)
Properties that guarantees validity even when encountering error/failure.

    Atomic
        transactions either succeed or fail completely; they are "atomic" even if made up of multiple statements
        Key property is that the change is abortable. Atomicity == abortability. The ability to retry the transaction
    Consistent (immediate, strong)
        every view to the db is valid; previous transactions are valid
        This is more an application level concern than DB level concern
    Isolation
        concurrency management
        This is the trickiest and also the most important.
        The meaning is: the effect of transactions, even if they are concurrent, is as if they were executed serially. Each transaction acts as though it has the entire DB to itself even though they execute concurrently
        Isolation Levels (strongest to weakest):
            Serializable
            Repeatable Read, Snapshot Isolation
            Read Committed
            Read Uncommitted
        Each isolation level has its own set of trade-offs. Each isolation level has its own set of algorithms. 
    Durable
        committed transactions can survive system crash; commit data to hd

ACID is a set of properties that give strong guarantees to developers to work on applications. It greatly simplifies what a developer has to know about the underlying system that they work with and make code very simple to write. The concept of abortable or atomic transactions as well as isolation levels simplify the programming model. Isolation levels allow us to "ignore" concurrency issues to some extent, and transactions allow us to think about groups of updates as a single update: we don't have to think too much about partial write failures.

ACID is important to transactional systems, typically critical business data. Use RDBMS and scale them up.

These seems like natural properties to have, but not all db systems have these 4 properties. If your db system doesn't have ACID, you have to handle it in your application code. These guarantees help the application developer not think about these issues.

Example: ACID systems are popular with institutions that deal with money; large banks still use mainframes (can't partition -- strong CA, no P -- but can scale up)

## BASE (AP, Weak Consistency)
Relatively newer term as a reaction to ACID.

    Basically Available
    Soft state
    Eventual consistency

In scenarios where availability and throughput are the most important, the BASE consistency model can be used. BASE systems typically give good performance on writes, loosening up consistency to have writes perform much faster.

Many AP Databases are invented by the largest tech companies (need to handle *VERY* large amount of writes at the cost of consistency):

    BigTable / HBase (Google)
    DynamoDB /Riak (Amazon)
        very influential paper: https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/10/06/10_years_on_amazons_cloud_chief_reflects_on_dynamodb_launch/
    Cassandra (Facebook)


## SQL vs NoSQL

    SQL DB
        PostgreSQL / MySQL
        ~ 1K QPS
    HDD NoSQL
        MongoDB
        lots more options here
        ~ 10K QPS
    Memory NoSQL
        Memcached / Redis 
        global hash table
        100K - 1M QPS
    Choosing Database
        Most of the time, you can choose either SQL or NoSQL
            NoSQL: either document or key / value
        if can't articulate reason/justification for a specific NoSQL database type, then choose SQL


## SQL DB Provides

    Schema
        data Types
    Constraints / Guarantees
        eases burden of application level
        NULLness, Uniquess
        Referential Integrity
    Data Abstraction
        can combine via relations
    Analytics
    More maturity, more tools, more tutorials and  solutions
    Transactions
        ACID
            only valid for 1 server; scale up only option
        Only on the Same Machine
    Best practices
        open source, battle-tested


## NoSQL Databases

    Performance
    Saves hardware
    Optimize for special use cases (pioneered by internet giants)
        ex: caching
    Flexible Schema for columns / values
        could be disadvantage, too
        schema validation done at application level instead of db level
    could be easier to program against because of the lack of schema, but has data integrity issues
        I can't trust my data!
        embed vs reference


## Performance

    RAM NoSQL >> Disk NoSQL > SQL


## Abstractions and Tooling

    SQL >> Disk NoSQL > RAM NoSQL


## Scaling

    SQL
        Read
            writes are really hard to scale
        take adv of in memory caching - add more memory!
        Replication (Primary / Replica)
            load balancing
            failover
            if the entire data set exceeds the disk capacity, we need to shard!
            Write
                Difficult!
        Primarily Disk I/O 
        Rebalancing indexes
        Sharding is hard
    NoSQL
        Sharding is built-in and transparent (some NoSQL)
        Lots of diversity, so lots of scaling options and tradeoffs
        Therefore, can handle massive amount of writes



## Some Good Resources for Continuous Study
[Distributed Systems for Young Bloods](https://www.somethingsimilar.com/2013/01/14/notes-on-distributed-systems-for-young-bloods/)
[Martin Kleppmann's Blog (Author of DDIA)](https://martin.kleppmann.com/archive.html)
