# Distributed System Communication

## Common Distributed System Patterns

### API Gateway
    An API Gateway is a service that acts as the middleman of the architecture where all external traffic passes through. It can be used as a center point for internal communication as well.
    Typically used as the front/edge of the internal architecture
    Also serves as the control plane for internal communication
        All external traffic first hits the API gateway and is routed to the appropriate service.
        Acts as broker for service-to-service communication.
        Abstracts and handles common practices, such as load balancing, circuit breaking, authentication, rate-limiting, monitoring, etc,
    Can act as a bottleneck since all traffic passes through it. If it goes down, everything goes down. Additionally, any issues with it affect everything.

### Service Mesh
    A service mesh is where all services in the system know of all the other services in the system.
    Each service is able to talk to any other service without a middleman.
    This is often achieved via a sidecar proxy.
        A sidecar proxy is a mini-service deployed alongside another service with the sole service of aiding the primary service with communication overhead.
        The sidecar proxy can be thought of as an API Gateway for an individual service. It can handle rate-limiting, service discovery, circuit-breaking, etc.
    While service meshes benefit from decentralization. Even if one sidecar proxy fails, it won't impact other services.
    However, service meshes are more complex to maintain as there are many more moving parts. 
    Additionally, there's often still a singular control plane that each sidecar proxy interacts with to receive updates. This still acts as a single-point-of-failure if it goes down and new services cannot be created.

### Message Queue - Publish-Subscribe
    Services do not communicate directly with one another.
    Instead, they publish messages to the queue. Other services listening for those events then act based on the event.
    Services are decoupled and aren't dependent on other services. They work based on events instead of requests.
        This helps to isolate bugs and outages.
        However, this makes it harder to understand how the system works. You can't easily follow requests and responses. Need to implement good monitoring and tracing to understand when issues in the system arise.
    All communication is asynchronous
        A system that uses a message queue as the backbone is an eventually consistent system.
        If there is a lag or backlog in the queue, it can take a long time for the system state to update.
    Event sourcing - a log of the events in the system are kept and can be replayed if needed.
        If a service is unavailable and misses certain events, it can individually play them back to get back to consensus.
    Similar to API Gateway, message queue can act as a bottleneck and single point of failure.
    Different types of communication patterns:  see message queue diagram




