# Configuring Parcel
- from Srdjan's gists:  https://gist.github.com/SrdjanCoric/c9dbb7fc320211bbe1bec0dea1888f6f


##

How to configure React Project with Parcel 2 (from Scratch)

    Within the client folder which is your frontend application folder create a src folder.
    In the src folder create an index.html file with the div id="root" where you will render your application.
    Import index.js file at the bottom of index.html. It needs to have type="module" for Parcel as you are going to use ES6 modules. <script type="module" src="./index.js"></script>
    Grab the room element end render the App component in it.

import React from "react";
import App from "./components/App";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";

const rootElement = document.getElementById("root");
ReactDOM.createRoot(rootElement).render(<App />);

    In the client folder, run npm init -y which gives you package.json file.
    Install React and ReactDOM npm i react react-dom
    Install the Parcel bundler npm i -D parcel.
    In the package.json file add a script "dev": "parcel src/index.html to run the development server.

    Install code quality tools, ESLint and Prettier npm i -D prettier eslint eslint-config-prettier
    In the client folder create .prettierrc file with an empty object inside it

{}

    In the client folder create .eslintrc.json file with the following content

  {
    "extends": [
    "eslint:recommended",
    "prettier"
    ],
    "plugins": [],
    "parserOptions": {
    "ecmaVersion": 2022, // configures ESLint to use ECMAScript 2022 standards for parsing your JavaScript code.
    "sourceType": "module"
    },
    "env": {
    "es6":true,  // enable all ECMAScript 6 features except for modules (this automatically sets the ecmaVersion parser option to 6).
    "browser": true,  // access browser global variables.
    "node": true // Node.js global variables and Node.js scoping.
    }
  }

End of Day 1

If you have eslint version 9+ installed you'll have to remove node_modules and reinstall eslint running the command below as plugins do not yet support eslint version 9.

    Install additional eslint dependencies for React npm i -D eslint eslint-plugin-import eslint-plugin-react eslint-plugin-react-hooks

    Set up proxing by installing a library http-proxy-middleware, npm i -D http-proxy-middleware

    In the client folder create .proxyrc.json file with the following content

{
  "/api": {
    "target": "http://localhost:3001/" // This is the server port number
  }
}

Setup TypeScript

    npm install -D typescript -> install typescript
    Run npx tsc --init -> this will run the TypeScript tool directly from your node_modules and init our project. Now we will see tsconfig.json file.
    In the tsconfig.json file we need to uncomment jsx field, set target to es2022, set  "outDir": "./dist"
    Run npm install -D @types/react @types/react-dom
    Configuring ESLint with TS - Run npm install -D eslint-import-resolver-typescript @typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin @typescript-eslint/parser

Updated eslintrc.json file

{
  "extends": [
    "eslint:recommended",
    "plugin:import/errors",
    "plugin:react/recommended",
    "plugin:react-hooks/recommended",
    "plugin:@typescript-eslint/recommended",
    "plugin:@typescript-eslint/recommended-requiring-type-checking",
    "prettier"
  ],
  "rules": {
    "no-unused-vars": ["warn", { "argsIgnorePattern": "^_" }],
    "react/react-in-jsx-scope": 0,
    "react/prop-types": 0,
    "@typescript-eslint/no-empty-function": 0
  },
  "settings": {
    "import/parsers": {
      "@typescript-eslint/parser": [".ts", ".tsx"]
    },
    "import/resolver": {
      "typescript": {
        "alwaysTryTypes": true
      }
    }
  },
  "plugins": ["react", "react-hooks", "import", "@typescript-eslint"],
  "parser": "@typescript-eslint/parser",

  "parserOptions": {
    "ecmaVersion": "latest",
    "sourceType": "module",
    "ecmaFeatures": {
      "jsx": true
    }
  },
  "env": {
    "es6": true,
    "browser": true,
    "node": true,
  }
}

    Components now need to have tsx file extension instead of js.

END of Day TypeScript and React Setup
Testing

    Set up testing. First we will install jest and jest-dom : npm i -D jest jest-dom jest-environment-jsdom
    Then we will install dependenceis for testing React with jest npm i -D @testing-library/react @testing-library/user-event @testing-library/jest-dom
    Then we will install dependencies for the ESlint to work with Jest npm i -D eslint-plugin-jest-dom eslint-plugin-testing-library
    In the .eslintrc.json file within the "plugins" add "jest-dom" and "testing-library and add jest global variables
    Update the contents of eslintrc.json file to

{
  "extends": [
    "eslint:recommended",
    "plugin:import/errors",
    "plugin:react/recommended",
    "plugin:react-hooks/recommended",
    "prettier"
  ],
  "rules": {
    "no-unused-vars": ["warn", { "argsIgnorePattern": "^_" }],
    "react/react-in-jsx-scope": 0,
    "react/prop-types": 0
  },
  "plugins": ["react", "react-hooks", "import", "testing-library", "jest-dom"], //Added plugins here
  "parserOptions": {
    "ecmaVersion": "latest",
    "sourceType": "module",
    "ecmaFeatures": {
      "jsx": true
    }
  },
  "env": {
    "es6": true,
    "browser": true,
    "node": true,
    "jest": true // Add JEST global variables here
  }
}

    For testing with jest npm i @types/jest ts-jest

    Add scripts to run tests "test": "jest" and another script if you want test script to continuously listen and rerun on save "test:watch": "jest --watch"

    In the .eslintrc.json file under "env" section add "jest:"true

// the rest of the configuration
  "env": {
    "es6": true,
    "browser": true,
    "node": true,
    "jest": true // we've added this
  }

Setup Babel

    Install Babel dependencies npm i -D @babel/preset-react @babel/preset-env
    Finally we need to create inside of client folder, .babelrc file.

{
  "presets": [
    "@babel/preset-env",
    [
      "@babel/preset-react",
      {
        "runtime": "automatic"
      }
    ]
  ]
}