# Fri Jul 12, 2024

## (group) meeting w/ Chris

- Ben's article looks great - a HOW-TO on building the chat app

- CL:  was thinking that a llamaIndex or LangChain tutorial might be better than AWS book (too much fine-tuning)

- CL:
  - article seems to use both LlamaIndex and LangChain - worth following up to see if both can be used?

- CL:
  - wants to see if there was more validation on use-case
  - we should look for architecture diagrams, etc.
    - if there's anything from early in their a company's life it's helpful
    - e.g., find blueprints from other products, etc.

  - architecture blueprints are very helpful
  - can help to "protect us" - to justify design decisions
    - we agreed with the architecture - there were similarities
    - or we felt our use-case was a bit different so we made some changes
    - need to justify decisions since we have "no years of experience"
    - we'll work on this next week

- CL:  would like to see
  - Scriv does things this way
  - Quickchat does it that way
  - it's helpful to get context for how features are built

- CL:
  - our team needs a common language
  - based upon different demos and having studied different things it's easier to create a common language to eliminate micro-friction
  - it helps to smooth out implementation details



- TL demo scriv
  - it was quick to setup the service
  - not a lot of config options - just decide and you're ready to go
  - product was made by a solopreneur, built the project in 2023
  - it's 5 lines of langchain code - very naive RAG
  CL: even though quickchat looks like scriv
    - scriv never made money, but quickchat supports 13 devs
    - it's more than the UI
    - need to explore the depth to see the difference
    - the danger is people won't understand the difference between 5 lines of langchain vs true depth
    - most people don't read write-ups, but it's the master blueprint for your pitch
      - you'll have to talk through your writeup
      - if people actually read the write-up (and it's well done), then it really sells things - especially if technical tradeoffs and stories can be shared
      - people may jump through write-up to help provide context
        - some interviewers will have write-up open while you chat
      - it's okay to say you didn't work on a particular part since the project may be quite large
        - it's better to be sure about what you really know
        - e.g., front vs back, etc.
    
    - TL:  would a reasonable metric if I didn't work on a particular part of a project
      - that I understand the rationale and decisions that were made on that part
      - CL: we should have at least that knowledge for 75% or more of that part of the project
        - within that 75% it's okay to have some variance of knowledge

      - CL:  remember that the maker will be able to see the data you input
        - BB:  risks?
        - CL:  no major risks, but just know that if you borrow features, etc. that someone will be able to triangulate back to you
        - for a small app - CL checks things out in the db all the time to see what people are doing

  - CL: where did knowledge base come from?
    - TL:  website
    - CL:  how does it scrape?  does it work for large sites?
    - BB:  it didn't work with a large game wiki

    - CL:  Can other people chime into the discussion?
      - LS needed to make a design decision

    - CL:  there is a live LS chatbot that we can play around with
      - will try to get us access from Max
      - 4 pm today Max will try to present architecture of LS RAG / chatbot

  - CL:  for LS - he created actual responses for common questions and then tried to augment with the website
    - there might be a lot of nuanced edge cases that we haven't mentioned
  
  - CL:  from the end-user perspective, CL would be happy with the scriv performance
  - CL:
    - on the backend, could we have evals?  e.g., human evals
    - can you add to the knowledge-base and do an eval again?
    - is it possible to look at reports, etc?
  - raw text could be fed back into the framework
    - can see all bot chats on the back-end

  - CL:  use case may not just create a chatbot
    - when products are new and the value comes after integration - you may need a service component (like salesforce)
      - the integration may be hard
      - hence long-term integration may be a good long-term approach
    - or they have VC funding - they may be burning money?

    - end businesses aren't necessarily seeking this knowledge
      - but they could be selling to consultancies
      - this could allow a new feature for you to offer to new clients
      - could offer it to new clients
      - might use quickchat

    - CL:  being able to self host is a definite benefit
      - use AWS - own infra which is the same as quickchat - you can tweak, etc.

- CL: on open-source
  - all for devs
  - for RAG in a box - it's pure product
  - if we do open-source with RIAB w/ evals, etc. but also e2e deploy and integrate

- CL: as we move forwards we can adjust
  - but it feels like professional RAG (not 5 lines of langchain), select embedding, vdb
    - have evals, maybe observability
    - have nice UI for mgmt
    - have deployment story
    - try to make product side with plugins to slack/discord/react
    - make it more of a plug-in architecture

- CL:  6 part series looks good
  - the next step is to figure out 
  - we should prototype now
  - but we need to justify the architecture somehow
  - capstone projects without that justification are okay, but the justification is better
    - see how other people have done it
  - typical writeups to talk about architecture
    - which may or may not be the model project

- e.g., River - past capstone project
  - https://river-live.github.io
  - a very old project
  - talked about separating websockets from the service
    - separating websocket connections to another server prevents bottlenecks with http
  - 1 click install
  - bring your own infra, we'll set it up correctly
  - all existing solutions are paid services
  - we know from competitors that it's a problem
  - looking at existing solutions, they looked at an architecture for a sports website called Pubby - totally different
    - the existing solutions were all closed source
    - they lucked into a video from a you-tube video from a dev at the company that had a screenshot
    - it wasn't a white paper, academic paper, etc.
    - but it was reliant on another solution
    - they just automated that infra
  - need to find something to justify an architecture
    - rely on past experience, talk to alum, etc.
    - finding something to justify architecture is very important
    - they did end up changing things slightly
    - having an initial architecture diagram makes a big difference


- CL:
  - what's our fluency with LangChain vs LlamaIndex?
  - JC /TL:  should we use a library?
  - CL: for complicated stuff it's great to use a library
    - people will ask why you chose something no matter what
    - we'll have to know those libraries a little bit anyway to be able to answer that question
    - might be worth doing a little tutorial anyway
  - CL: we should read all 6 parts of the architecture series from Ben

- CL:  let's catch up at 3:30 pm pacific no matter what
  - if we find tutorials, read whatever
  - love resources or books where they use jupyter notebooks - just being able to click through is great

- side-discussion on pipenv vs poetry, etc.
  - CL:  don't get hung up on it
  - just pick 1 and go
  - .toml was created by someone to put variables in yml files





## 2nd meeting w/ Chris

- CL: designing logos was difficult
  - designers didn't want to deal with this
  - ai logos are so much better process, and cheaper

- GL:  conference was free from Microsoft
  - single day
  - sponsors weren't well-known
  - mostly enterprise solutions to port people to Microsoft
  - Primarily for businesspeople
  - CL:  free conferences are often sales calls
    - the roles and firms they list are often indications
    - often can be led by salespeople
  - GL:  it was mostly developer advocates at the conference
  - CL:  if you're in a prolonged job hunt
    - could look at dev advocate roles / developer relations or solutions engineer - 2 roles that pay well and you can grow technically
    - good to get out there and validate your knowledge

- CL:  wants to focus on LangChain or LlamaIndex
  - think we can pick up AWS easily from other resources (rather than the book)

- CL:  summary
  - there are open source frameworks, eval, observability, RIAB
    - to work with them are figure out how to deploy
  - on the other side, there are products - upload docs, we'll create a chatbot

  - if you have a medium sized company - may have sales / finance docs
    - you'd have to send your docs to someone else's infrastructure
  
    - if you could host on your own infra - there's a nice opportunity to do that
      - internal devops team can manage it

  - not sure how we stitch together, yet

  - don't know how these products chunk, tweak, embedding models, etc.
    - there are domain-specific embedding models, etc.
    - we could allow a bit of flexibility there

  - how do we do it?
  - do we have "permission to do it"?

    - hard to find from closed source products

- CL:  we need to think about WHY do things exist?
  - e.g., WHY does LangChain exist?
  - always think about why something exists as we go through tutorials

- GL:  should we learn more towards LlamaIndex?
  - more optimized for retrieval?
  - CL:  the founder of LlamaIndex is everywhere (Jerry Liu)
    - there might be more resources for LangChain
    - there is a LlamaIndex book (May 2024) - building data driven applications with LlamaIndex

- GL:  python vs Typescript?
  - CL:  there are too many side quests to call libraries in a different language than what we're using
  - CL:  recommends not using it

- CL:  mojo - a python superset language by the guy who created swift
  - more performant
  - Mojo may be backwards compatible with Python

- group discussion:
  - Python seems to be decided
  - LangChain vs LlamaIndex
    - we should decide by Wed next week
    - we need to start coding by mid next
  
  - CL:  propose high-level skim reading Sat/Sun LlamaIndex
    - Mon/Tues LangChain
    - or do high-level research
    - do 10-day free trial
    - we would need to find some way for Chris to pay for it (e.g., gift card, etc.);  he doesn't want to have to keep paying for it in the future



