# Thurs Aug 1, 2024

## "demo" (meeting) w/ Max

- MH:
  - started a course on "improving rag" - interesting, zoom calls have 80 ppl, mostly engineers, some still working on stuff
  - it has been great to talk to people in the space and working through the same challenges
  - theme was on improving evals - retrieval eval instead of generation eval
  - instructor's perspective quality of generation is affected by prompting, model quality
  - retrieval is critical
    - retrieving the right set of documents is critical
    - talked about synthetic data generation
    - very important to the process
    - trying to share info about what we should think about

  - will share materials he finds helpful
  - app: dot.ai (?)  :  https://new.computer - track months or years long conversations
    - talked a lot about pre-processing to synthesize and summarize that data and use synthetic data generation to test challenging queries

    - GL:  https://friend.com
      - $1.8mm for that domain



- BB:  intro - slide deck
  - in rag considerations section at ~12:39 pm
- JC:  component diagram finished ~12:48 pm
- TL:  started knowledge base discussion ~12:48 pm
- JC:  finished pipeline at ~12:58 pm
- BB:  started talking about evals ~12:58
  - talked about "ground truth", import csv, select chatbot(pipeline) and check against ground truth
  - MH:  a way to check each input / output to judge if it's good or bad?
  - BB:  only based on each query at the moment (only 2 metrics)
  - BB finished at ~1:02 pm
- GL:  started UI demo ~1:02 pm
  - GL:  knowledge bases fixed for now - since it decides how data goes into db, hard to change later (e.g., drop db, etc.)
  - GL:  showed config options, talked through workflow

  - MH:  is the config detailed handled by who?
    - how do we share the chat interface?  Is that separate from the visual UI?
    - GL:  we have a plain JS component - should add an "export component" button - chatbot is just for testing
    [ - JC: do we need to worry about "being configured chatbots"?  do we have a saved config for that? ]

    - MH:  front-end framework?
    - GL:  shadcn / react

  - overall: finished around ~1:10 pm I think


- MH:  could just auto-scale EC2 instances - could be fine
  - certain parts are bursty and we could move them out later
  - they will be interesting infrastructure challenges to talk about

- MH:  they aren't being specific on feature vs other stuff to work on
  - our base functionality in the scooter - that's a good place - interesting take
  - general take:  if we have a week once everything is integrated and working and demo-able
    - focus on performance and benchmarks over new features
    - building a system like this creates interesting features
    - likely questions:  how does it perform?  what load?  how does it work with different doc types?
      - should have interesting eng / tech questions
    - the core use case is fulfilled
    - once it's working, focus on security, performance, etc.
    - over additional features - 
    - front-end looks great
    - if you want to spend more time styling you could, but the conversation we'll have are more around performance of front-end, system overall rather than features
      - slick modals likely won't come up in interview
      - may want to ask about storing context in the front end and manage data we're getting back
    - where we're at sounds good
    - lock-in functionality is great - future serverless is great
  
    - work on lock-in to get hard-numbers - how our system performs under these conditions
      - features are less likely to drive conversations


## follow-ups
- hybrid search
- python libraries
- sending out a message to others